[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Hello, I'm Reece Jones,
and welcome to module 1,
Scaling the Recall Ladder.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
We all dream every night,
whether we remember or not.
However, experiencing dreaming
and remembering dreaming
are two very different things.
Thus, in order to start bringing
back these experiences intact,
it's critical to instill
some foundational practices,
practices which, as
you'll quickly discover,
everything else is
built on top of.
And so let's get straight to it.
First and foremost, you need
to make a pledge to yourself
to start remembering your dreams
from this moment on, an earnest
and serious pledge.
That might sound like
laughably simple advice,
but you'd be surprised how
far this little tidbit can go.
By actively turning your
attention towards your dreams,
you're sending a strong
signal to yourself.
I want to start
remembering my dreams.
And so the process
begins, slow at first,
but in time gaining momentum.
I want to start
remembering my dreams.
Remind yourself of this simple
wish throughout the day.
And then, come evening, as
you're falling to sleep,
repeat this wish to yourself
again and again, silently
within your mind.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
It's also advised to go
to sleep in a sober state
as much as you can.
While certain drugs,
entheogens in particular,
can enhance dreaming,
at least temporarily,
it's ill advised for
long-term success.
Instead, you want
your mind to be clear,
so that your dreams
and your memory of them
can blossom unimpeded.
In a similar vein,
you should also
consider taking up meditation,
preferably just before bed.
This will further
sharpen your mind
and clear the space for strong
recall the following morning.
It doesn't have to
be a long session.
5, 10, or 15 minutes
will suffice.
In fact, you should worry less
about the length of the session
and more about the consistency.
If you maintain this consistency
over a multiple-day period,
you should notice your
dream memories slowly
coming into focus.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
And, of course before
getting into bed,
make sure you have all the
requisite tools close by--
a dream journal and
a pen, for example.
The last thing you
want is to be searching
for these upon awakening.
So keep all of it on
your bedside cabinet
ready and waiting to go.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
The specific tools
you'll use to log with
will be up to you, of course.
Some people log on their phones
using the virtual keyboard
and notepad app.
Some write on a tablet
with a digital pen.
Some use a voice recorder.
Others stay traditional and
just use a pen and a journal.
Personally, I use a mix.
I write rough notes on a
whiteboard during the night.
I do so in the dark, so I
don't have to turn on lights
and disturb my melatonin levels.
Then I transfer the notes over
to a full log on a tablet,
using a digital
pen come morning.
The option that
works best for you
will be dependent
on the environment
you sleep in and
whether or not you
share that environment
with anyone else.
So experiment and find
what works best for you.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Let's jump ahead now and
pretend it's morning.
You meditated just before sleep.
You got into bed sober.
You repeated the
mantra tonight I'll
remember my dreams silently
in your mind whilst falling
to sleep.
Your dream journal and pen was
placed on your bedside cabinet.
And now you're waking up in bed.
The first thing to remember
here is stay still.
This might sound strange,
but moving too suddenly
can wipe your recall, especially
when you're just starting out.
So instead, stay still in
the exact same position
you woke up in, and start
trawling through your memories.
Do you remember anything?
Perhaps you do, and it
just starts flowing.
In which case, perfect.
Let it flow.
But if it doesn't, that's OK.
Just gently send
out some probes.
For example, you can ask
yourself, where was I just now
and see if your brain responds.
If that doesn't work, you
can play a little game
with yourself I like to
call alphabetic recall.
Start by thinking of something
beginning with the letter
A. What comes to mind?
Apple maybe?
Arrow perhaps?
And do those words
spark anything for you?
Do they connect up to anything
that happened in your dreams
last night?
If not, that's fine.
Move on and think of something
beginning with the letter
B. What comes to mind
for that, and does it
spark anything for you that
happened in your dreams
last night?
If this technique works and
you latch onto a memory,
now tease out the details using
the reverse memory technique.
So whatever you recall, ask
yourself what led to that.
In other words, what
happened just before it?
That will often
spark another memory,
and then you do
the same with that.
What led to that
situation, and so on.
If you're gentle with
yourself and don't probe too
aggressively, you can gently
tease out many details
with this simple
technique alone.
If still no details
emerge, try this.
It's similar in nature to
the previous technique,
but slightly different.
Try to imagine some
different scenarios
you might have dreamt about.
For example, it's
likely you dreamed
about your wife, or husband,
or perhaps a friend.
These are all people
you see and think
about a lot in your waking
life, so the chances
of you dreaming
about them are high.
Does that spark anything?
If not, keep going.
Think of some likely
environments you dreamt of.
For example, maybe
you dreamt about one
of your favorite parks
or your family home.
Again, these are
spots you frequent
a lot, so the chances you
dreamed about them are high.
By continuing to
probe in this manner,
eventually you will
stumble upon a memory.
And from there, just like
before, you can tease out
the rest of the details with
the reverse memory technique.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
OK, so now you have
some recall, and you can
start logging in your journal.
But is that it?
Well, not quite.
As you go about
your day, I want you
to continue keeping your
eyes out for recall,
and have a way to log that
recall when it emerges.
I call these recall triggers.
We've all experienced them--
someone says something
or you see something
that reminds you of a dream.
Most people just let these
moments pass them by.
The memory briefly
surges, and then it's
forgotten about again.
But we're not going to let
them slip by like that.
Instead, when a
recall trigger occurs,
I want you to take
note of it and add it
to your dream journal at the
next possible opportunity.
Because, after all, when
mastering the art of dream
recall, every little counts.
[MUSIC PLAYING]